Exercise: Committing the project
Scenario
At this stage of the course, you have created a database model with the name LittleLemonDM. You have also developed a database with the name LittleLemonDB and exported the SQL file.

In this exercise, you’ll take the next step and commit the project to the remote repository on GitHub.


Prerequisites
You should have already cloned the GitHub repository to a local repository named db-capstone-project in your machine's workspace directory. 


Task instructions
Complete the following tasks to commit your project to Git. 

Task 1
In this first task, you need to create a new branch and commit the changes. Here are a few steps that you can follow. 

Step 1: Create a new branch on your local repository
Open the terminal and use the command $ git checkout –B command <branch-name> to create a new git branch.

Step 2: add the project folder to the stage
In the Git terminal, enter the command $ git add. 

Step 3: check the status
In the Git terminal, enter the command $ git status. This will display a list of details about the commit.

Step 4: commit the changes
The Git command for this action is $ git commit –m "message"


Task 2
After completing the first task, you should carry out the following steps to push and pull the changes to GitHub.

Step 1: Push the changes to the GitHub repository
Use the command $ git push –u origin <branch-name>

Step 2: Login to GitHub and open the repository
The repository page should display the Compare & pull request button. Go ahead and press it. 

Screenshot of compare & pull request button
Step 3: Create pull request
On the repository page, you’ll see the changes committed, and the Create & pull request button.

Screenshot of create pull request button
Step 4: Merge pull request
Review the changes and confirm by pressing the Merge pull request button.

Screenshot of merge request button
Task 3
After you complete the second task, you need to update the main branch by completing the following steps:

Step 1: Login to the main branch of local repository
Go back to the Git terminal and enter the command $ git checkout main

Step 2: Update the main branch
Use the $ git pull command.

Conclusion
In this exercise, you practiced the steps for pushing the Little Lemon database project files to the GitHub repository.